hello and welcome to the Stellar open protocol discussion so for those of you watching at home i just want to give a quick overview I just want to give a quick overview the goal of these meetings is to talk about and plan for changes to upcoming versions of the Stellar protocol we go over core advancement proposals or caps for short these are open source specs that describe new features designed to evolve the protocol to meet ecosystem needs all caps begin with a draft and they go
all caps begin with a draft and they go through a rigorous process before they're actually implemented in Stellar core and even then they don't actually hit the network until validators vote to upgrade to the new version of the protocol that implements them so crucially not all drafts make it across the finish line right changes to the protocol they require deliberation diligence and meetings like this they're just one part in the cap life cycle so today we have two caps to discuss and again these are both drafts cap 37 and cap 38 both of which have the same goal which is to introduce automated market makers or amms for short at the protocol level so automated market makers are a simple way automated market makers are a simple way to provide liquidity necessary for asset exchange you may have heard of things like uniswap they've shown that automated market makers are effective at providing an easy to access liquidity at scale they essentially allow for the creation of liquidity pools which are simple and non-interactive and which can attract large amounts of capital and enable high volumes of trading so the goal of both these proposals cap 37 and cap 38
37 and cap 38 is to add automated market makers to Stellar in order to improve overall liquidity on the network they differ slightly but that they have the same goal so two things before we start one this is a technical discussion very technical so if you want to follow along i suggest that you read the caps and the I suggest that you read the caps and the recent developer mailing list threads about them both of which are linked to in the event both of which are linked to in the event description two amms are a big topic and the goal today amms are a big topic and the goal today is not to get to the end of the is not to get to the end of the discussion about them rather we're just beginning the discussion so we'll start to bring key questions about these proposals to light so that the discussion and debate can continue on the Stellar developers google group just getting started that group is open participation which means that if you have an opinion or some great insight about amms to share you too can join in just follow the link you too can join in just follow the link in the event description all right without further ado let us start to talk about amn so again we have these two proposals but they have a lot of questions in common and then they also have some differences and we're sort of going
some differences and we're sort of going to get into both today and the first sort of topic that we wanted to talk about was a question about reserve requirement and how it works in each of these caps so how it works in each of these caps so cap 37 has the pool creator the person who creates the liquidity pool paid for the pool ledger entry and cap 38 does not increase the reserve requirement so i guess the reserve requirement so I guess the first question is which model is better is there any concern about either model so reserve requirements well this isn't very deep but it's easier to reduce reserve requirements than increase them so you know if there's doubt i guess it'd be more if there's doubt I guess it'd be more conservative to have the reserve requirement to have the reserve requirement initially maybe we can go over the motivation for not having reserve requirements because most ledger entries do
most ledger entries do yeah i can sound just kind of weird yeah I can sound just kind of weird anyway so in cat 38 that version of the proposal does not have the reserve requirement and the main motivation is basically it's not remotely obvious who should own this thing in the first place like why should any given account be responsible for paying this which is you know it can't be used by a single person in the first be used by a single person in the first place intrinsically a multi-party thing and being the person who created it isn't necessarily a meaningful concept but more importantly it's not that there's no reserve requirement at all because the pool can't exist if there isn't at least one trust line for the pool share i should say so for the pool share I should say so basically it's kind of like you get it like you it's kind of like you get it like you know when you're the first person to create the pool you get it like half off you basically get two entries for the price of one but then you know if there were a
but then you know if there were a thousand people using the pool it would actually be like a thousand people paying a reserve for one single entry or if there were you know ten thousand people would be even more like that so that's kind of the way that i see so that's kind of the way that I see this motivation all right so there's no way to abuse this because you can't just create an infinite number of these you'll need infinite number of trust lines as well so in other words basically the trust line it sort of serves as the reserve requirement rather than creating a new reserve requirement specific to a liquidity pool right that's a pretty good explanation of it yeah I mean I think like I mean that's a reasonable explanation yeah so it'd be a bummer if we changed our minds but yeah and later wanted to like increase it but that does seem reasonable
I mean if that's the case maybe we're done talking about reserve requirements like does anyone have anything else to say about them yeah we sort of started with the easiest topic just to warm up so if that one's that just to warm up so if that one's that easy and we can move on i guess like maybe so the reason i added that question in the first place was because it was more like thinking for like they are potentially very large i mean the I mean the pool basically to describe it you need to basically describe you know what which assets are part of that pool right now we're only discussing concern products as part of this but you can imagine having a lot more complicated type of pools so maybe the
the amount of data that is tied to this one pool could be much larger than what we are talking about now for example i think in the for example I think in the i think compound type of world they I think compound type of world they have like multi assets like more than two assets actually in your pool and i think in if you have like kings and I think in if you have like kings or v3 type of stuff yeah now you have like those bitmaps that are in there as well i mean like the cost of that becomes I mean like the cost of that becomes much larger so i don't know much larger so I don't know you know is it does that count really just as a single ledger entry or do we need to do single ledger entry or do we need to do something better if we if right now we make it basically implicitly attached to a truss line we're kind of stuck with that model forever as opposed to maybe if it had if it as opposed to maybe if it had if it was separate we could imagine okay if we change our mind and it has to be more change our mind and it has to be more expensive because you know those things are gigantic we can you know we have that as a
we can you know we have that as a separate thing but maybe that a separate thing but maybe that that's fun because yeah the creator like we can maybe give the first trust line free or something i mean kind of equivalent something I mean kind of equivalent right like as part of this I mean the thing is like there shouldn't be like a gazillion of these things right so if it turns out that you know i mean so if it turns out that you know I mean i can imagine I can imagine going forward that it turns out that there's any number of things like it might turn out that we really only want a few hundred of these liquidity pools in the network and so we would turn it into like an auction to we would turn it into like an auction to see like which asset pairs are like you know worthy of having the automated market maker or you know or it's just kind of the thing is even if it costs like 100 the thing is even if it costs like 100 lumens to create one of these things it just wouldn't be that big a deal because that if it's actually a useful liquidity pool that cost would be amortized over a large number of users so i guess a large number of users so I guess it doesn't seem like it really matters because i guess we could also say
because I guess we could also say later on like hey price just went up but will grandfather in the existing liquidity pools or something so what happens to the pool so what happens to the pool when the last trust line disappears i think in both proposals disappears I think in both proposals it's supposed to be automatically removed I'm just wondering if there's some kind of spammy edge case where people create and destroy trust lines quickly to get some kind of ephemeral pull advantage I mean I guess it could but like the nature of the pool it's not really useful if it's not sitting around right so and you can't be a participant in the pool if your trust line doesn't exist because you wouldn't be able to hold the shares so i wouldn't be able to hold the shares so i it's hard to see how you could get value it's hard to see how you could get value from that i do think that like nikola has a good I do think that like nikola has a good point about the multi-asset pools you know like the multi-asset pools you know like balancer type pools
and I think in that kind of a setting we could always say you know like okay well we're gonna charge fees for charge reserves for those types of pools but not for these types you know i think there's a lot of flexibility I think there's a lot of flexibility you know we already have a mechanism by which we can do this which is sponsorship so we wouldn't have to invent anything new it's just a matter of like do we think it's just a matter of like do we think that that's even necessary at this point for me the answer's like probably no I mean like if we to me yeah I agree that right now we don't need it it's more like are we is it possible to it's more like are we is it possible to add it later if we have to if we don't if we're not careful basically because in the capital eight world i guess we would have to force people to I guess we would have to force people to wrap their trust land creation with some sort of like sponsorship
sort of like sponsorship thing or maybe responsible by default i don't know yeah maybe that maybe that's fine it just changes the cost of creating a trustline so maybe that's okay i mean what would the okay I mean what would the change look like in general I'm not a fan of complicating today's thing because of potentially tomorrow but you want to like add like one field to the operation that's like the extra fee for creating the trust line or the extra reserve for creating the trust line or something i think we should just be on type so i think we should just be on type so i think it wouldn't actually change the contract so it's actually fine yeah like we ever have a new type of pools that are like those gigantic things and we believe that they you know there should be no free riding on this then we can always add like this like those would be sponsored basically instead of right now they would like the i mean right now you have the like the I mean right now you have the field that allows them to be sponsored except we don't use it
all right I think we can move on okay so the next question is about dex integration which i think is a dex integration which I think is a bigger question so both proposals give access to liquidity from both pools and the decks but they vary in their approach they vary in their approach john will you just walk us through the difference between cap 37 and cap 38 in their approaches to dex integration sure thanks so basically both of them put the access to trading with liquidity pools or automated market makers inside of path payment and that's the only access point to this functionality there is no like trade only with an trade only with the order broker trade only with the amm it's just one operation which is more like trade now the difference in how these work is that in cap 37 orbitz proposal like the idea is that you're going to
like the idea is that you're going to try to always get the best price so you might imagine a situation where like the you know you have let's say you have an order and the price is at like a hundred dollars or something for whatever you're trying to buy and like the marginal price on the amn is at like the marginal price on the amn is at 95 right now but the amm has like really small reserves really small reserves so you might say like okay well first I'm gonna trade against the amm until the price hits a hundred dollars then i'll go and cross the order book and take that first order and then you know now I'm going to now and then you know now I'm going to now the next price is at 105 and so I'm the next price is at 105 and so I'm going to trade against the am until it goes to 105 etc and you do both stepping back and forth between the two depending on which one gives you the best margin price in cap 38 to kind of avoid that complexity the approach is basically just what if i took the entire trade if I what if I took the entire trade against the amm or what if i took the entire trade or what if I took the entire trade against the order book and just give you whichever of those two produces
give you whichever of those two produces the best price so you would never do like some amn and some order book it would either be all order book oil a m sorry best price or best volume oil a m sorry best price or best volume so even if the volume is tiny you would so even if the volume is tiny you would take it so I'm saying best price in the context of like imagine that I'm trying to trade a specified amount like i wanna trade a specified amount like I wanna i wanna you know buy three thousand I wanna you know buy three thousand widgets or something I'm gonna do whatever it takes to get the best price for those three thousand widgets if i can't get 3 000 widgets on one of if I can't get 3 000 widgets on one of the two options then that's not an option wait sorry so it's they're all or nothing now oh i see yeah because that's working now oh I see yeah because that's working that's right okay that's right okay but so in the cap 37 example where it but so in the cap 37 example where it always tries to get the best price and may execute part of it on it via the amm may execute part of it on it via the amm and part of it via the order book what and part of it via the order book what does it do it splits the amount that you want into it splits the amount that you want into a bunch of different path payments
I guess I mean it's kind of hard to explain what it does at like an implementation level but it it's all it's like still going to come through as a single operation and just inside the implementation it's going to know to you know kind of do going to know to you know kind of do this incremental approach so it's completely invisible to the user right and so in both proposals can you have arbitrage opportunities between the order book and the amm so in the cap37 proposal there are no arbitrage opportunities between the two because they get resolved automatically as you trade in the cap38 proposal there can be but the reality is that with like spreads as wide as they are on the order spreads as wide as they are on the order book today if there were ever a situation where there was an arbitrage opportunity between the amm and the order book there would also be an arbitrage opportunity between the amm and any external order book for the same product
book for the same product probably i mean like i can't probably I mean like I can't give you 100 guarantee on that but you know i think know I think it's pretty common to have like spreads on the order book today greater than half percent so i would greater than half percent so I would think that you know if you're looking at any more liquid place in the world that would probably get you into an arbitrage universe there first with the cap37 implementation would it be possible to build an attack where you constantly to build an attack where you constantly switch between the order book and the pool like a with a single path name like is like a with a single path name like is that a concern what kind of it like what would this attack do exactly right it would take the minimum amount from the pool and it decides that the order book has the next best price and then after that it would switch back to the pool and just keep going back and to the pool and just keep going back and forth while in cap 38 you would just choose one or the other right do you see what one or the other right do you see what I'm saying
I'm saying so this is i mean like there can only in so this is I mean like there can only in the world where there's exactly one order book and exactly one amm there can only be as and exactly one amm there can only be as many switches as there are offers in the worst case so like if there's 10 000 offers there could be ten thousand switches but there couldn't be twenty thousand that would be impossible does that make sense do I need to convince you of that i could no i think convince you of that I could no I think that makes sense okay yeah the worst case behavior is to dex not you know that's always the answer one comment i have is that whatever we implement in core we have to be able to model it core we have to be able to model it outside of core like horizon has to be able to calculate the same thing to give you the best path payment and presumably third parties would also want to do that so we should bear that in mind like it can't be completely opaque
what do people kind of feel about what's the good approach here I think one important question here is like cap 37 seems to suggest that the dex is a valuable thing and should be maintained and the markets will be maintained alongside because if the if everything just migrates to the automatic market makers then have this like complexity of interleaving requests of no leaving offers seems to be like doesn't make sense right so the question is like do we think that the ecosystem is going to migrate like are we are there use cases that automatic market makers are not
automatic market makers are not providing a good solution for as much as the dex is i think there are but the dex is I think there are but it'll probably be per asset pair anywhere like if i had to predict i anywhere like if I had to predict i would say that for you know if i want to like you know for you know if I want to like you know do an ipo of my company on Stellar I'm gonna just basically like put the order book there i mean it'll be offer order book there I mean it'll be offer my shares for sale like on the order book or something right and if I'm trying to do like forex exchanges or whatever then probably the amm is going to be best probably the amm is going to be best so it seems unfortunate that kind of like the more intermingling of these abstractions the harder it's going to be to like you know improve each individual one in the future the more complexity there's going to be and it's not clear what the payoff is going to be the market will do better with impermanent loss right so when there's knowledge outside of the blockchain the market will take advantage of it much more effectively than the amm yep seems like an argument to have it
yep seems like an argument to have it you know I'm not saying get rid of the you know I'm not saying get rid of the existing decks I'm just saying you know have both but don't have them terribly intermingled like they sort of ideally improvements to the mm don't need to like you know change the logic of the order book as you know as much as possible and vice as you know as much as possible and vice versa so then it would just be a user choice more than anything whether to use the amm or use the dax a market use the amm or use the dax a market maker choice the user would just get the best price available for a path payment right but someone who's trying to make a market could either use our amm or if it's not good then they could use or if it's not good then they could use the decks comer I would kind of ask you like can you think of anything where people would want to use like would have a good justification for using both on the same product because i agree with on the same product because I agree with david like i can think of lots of cases david like I can think of lots of cases where the amm will be better than the decks or the amm will be better than the decks or lots of cases where i say the decks i lots of cases where I say the decks i should say the order book
should say the order book lots of cases where the order book would be better than the amms but i can't be better than the amms but I can't think of a case where people would be obviously indifferent between the two well i think what could happen is well I think what could happen is that you know that amms are used to like bootstrap a market but that then when the market is like you know a really big deal then is like you know a really big deal then some big market maker will come along and they would rather have the control of setting explicit limit orders because they can set have a lot of depth and they can kind of have a lot of depth and they can kind of adjust to x you know external factors that affect the price and so they would prefer that and so i and so they would prefer that and so i could see the amm is way to bootstrap a could see the amm is way to bootstrap a market and then like a full-on market maker using the order book once it makes sense for them to do that because there's enough volume that is profitable for them to make the market in the traditional way but cap38 would satisfy that without the extra complexity so at the moment it doesn't seem like
so at the moment it doesn't seem like anyone's arguing that the extra complexity of cop 37 is worth has a benefit that makes it worth while really is that true is there anyone who thinks cap37 and the super interleaved process is substantially better but I think the argument for that behavior is actually what orbit wrote i think this morning on the dave mailing I think this morning on the dave mailing list which is trying to limit like the number of times you have like this arbitrage opportunities between emm and the existing order book the thing is that i don't know if you have any data I don't know if you have any data really to kind of say that this is going to be
kind of say that this is going to be a big problem inside like this is like inside a specific like even on the decks overall like even on the decks overall like you have pairs that i mean yeah are assets that pairs that I mean yeah are assets that represent the same thing right they're just issued by different people and that doesn't solve i mean cap 37 doesn't that doesn't solve I mean cap 37 doesn't solve that so that's why I'm kind of a in the camp of like starting with this simple thing first see how that goes and then adjust like based on that because yeah this interleaving so far on you know the type of things so far on you know the type of things I'm saying it's actually very hard to even come up with like environments or things that you want to happen if we want to change the what the mm is doing like if it's something more complicated than constant product I'm not even sure
than constant product I'm not even sure we can yeah explain what we exp what we expect to happen like we want the best price but when you like we want the best price but when you have like grounding and all those issues that come in play it actually becomes really complicated to try to reason about this so i would delay that decision as much so I would delay that decision as much as possible that's my opinion and there's a chance that's my opinion and there's a chance that you know we'll want a third thing that's neither an amm nor the existing decks and so you know it's nice the idea that okay we you know it's nice the idea that okay we can just have multiple approaches to this coexisting and they don't have to be tightly integrated that leaves us more flexibility in the future great anything else about dex integration or should we move on to the next topic great the next topic is pool parameter updates
I think sid was working on something related to this is that true yeah I wrote something on the that mailing list yesterday i can talk about that if you like I can talk about that if you like yeah will you talk us through it yeah so it it's what i propose is yeah so it it's what I propose is an extension on what orbit pros where you include the fee in the ledger header so instead of just having one fee you have you know all the fees you may want to you know all the fees you may want to use for example if you had a couple different constant if you had a couple different constant product pools with different fees you have all them the ledger header and depending on which pool you're interacting on you would pull the fee from there this will allow you to upgrade the fees without a protocol update the issue here though is that the issue here though is that you know the more pools we add you know the more pools we add more parameters we add wherever we if we store this in the ledger head it'll get polluted wherever we decide to store it somewhere else
we decide to store it somewhere else like it may become an issue so that was what i proposed i so that was what I proposed i think niko had a different think niko had a different proposal related to storing the parameters in the ledger pull key i believe and in the ledger pull key I believe and maybe you can talk about that right so I guess like what I described was not necessarily where to start i mean like there's where to start I mean like there's like there are actually different concepts here because let's see it is the other question after so just maybe one thing that will help me can we maybe one thing that will help me can we just talk about what parameters there might be that we would need to store other than right so like the type of things that i think people were talking about so for the obvious one is we have a proof a puffy right
we have a proof a puffy right that's the one that is kind of the really the only parameter and a constant product pool we have other parameters also like minimum amounts that we want people to be able to deposit like basically a unit you can think of it as basically a unit you can think of it as a unit of deposit or a as a unit of deposit or withdrawal that helps with guaranteeing certain levels of liquidity basically when you do all those operations what there's i think some of those when you have I think some of those when you have like the more than two assets type of course those have actually formulas that are getting even more complicated because now you have like different weights for those assets i think those are like the ones I think those are like the ones that are known right now right i think for like
right now right I think for like unison b3 type of pool you have like a unison b3 type of pool you have like a step size also i mean yeah size also I mean yeah it's up to future so and there are a few other things that are like for example curve has this amplification factor and that would be something else that would have to be stored if we were to use that is there an issue with storing all of this in the leisure header I'm assuming like you want to get two actually so the one actually i guess actually so the one actually I guess like when i wrote this question what i was when I wrote this question what I was thinking at the time was more like there's this question of if you store the parameter as a global as opposed to be something that is attached to the pull itself well that means is that if you want to well that means is that if you want to ch if you change the value of that parameter so if you change the c for
parameter so if you change the c for example you're actually changing the fee for every pool in existence every instance right and actually have a hard time to kind of and actually have a hard time to kind of understand how that model works in a world where you have other parameters other than the key like for the fee maybe it works for other parameters i think it changes for other parameters I think it changes the dynamics of the pool so much that you're actually you're really talking about a very different pool at that point and it may not actually be something desirable this first version is we are establishing the model that we want going forward and you know constant product is very special and i don't want to be is very special and I don't want to be stuck with that you know with whatever choice comes out of that so you're really focused here on the on so you're really focused here on the update like updating the
the update like updating the what should it be possible to update the parameters on an existing pool it's kind of the main crux here i think it's yeah it derives from this I think it's yeah it derives from this choice right that is if it's a global that means when you update it you change everywhere right my stance on this is that like you shouldn't be able to retroactively update things you know if you wanted to switch to a different pool create the new pool move your money into there and let people vote with their feet or with their money however you want to say it my stance on this is more a ux thing my stance on this is more a ux thing than anything else you know what i really don't like you know what I really don't like seeing looking on my bank statement and being like oh i used to get 1.5 being like oh I used to get 1.5 interest now i get one percent interest now I get one percent interest i didn't agree to that I didn't agree to that nobody told me until after my money had already been sitting there for however long so i don't think i want to impose that so I don't think I want to impose that on to other people so a pool would have fixed parameters
so a pool would have fixed parameters that could never change once it was initiated somehow so what you're saying that would be the stance that i would take on this stance that I would take on this i think the only exception to this I think the only exception to this might be like perhaps we might make the exception that these can change during a protocol upgrade because generally we take the stance that we can change the rules on protocol upgrades and you know i don't think anybody would be super offended if all the validators plus all the developers plus went through this huge review process to agree like this is gonna be better uniformly for everybody so we should make it the de facto but isn't nico's point that when you make the second pull if you wanted to change the fee in a second pull it would affect the fee in the first pull are they coupled like in siddharth's proposal and i'll let him in siddharth's proposal and i'll let him talk more about it but he's offering like these three different fear in his example he's offering these three different fee tiers and you can imagine being in the mid-tier fee you know
being in the mid-tier fee you know you could have the low tier one the mid you could have the low tier one the mid two one the high tier one and then you two one the high tier one and then you know the validators vote like okay we're gonna move the mid tier one from point five to point six or something like that so it would still be possible to be in a world would still be possible to be in a world where there are multiple pools and still have multiple fees but have them globally controlled so that existing ones get changed anyway not saying that i support that but i think saying that I support that but I think that's possible but siddharth you can step in here if I'm not hitting this correctly no that was right and that like the nice thing here is that you and i don't know if this that you and I don't know if this actually matters but you control the number of possible pools right i the number of possible pools right i don't know if that matters for like liquid liquidity fragmentation right like if we allow if we end right like if we allow if we end up allowing like 10 or 15 constant product pools like will that be an issue or do we assume that everyone will move to the most optimal pool optimal pool like i I'm not sure what will end up like I I'm not sure what will end up happening there
I tend to think that people would have probably eventually settled down onto the right thing but i also don't think that's a but I also don't think that's a particularly nice user experience it's like decision paralysis when you get to the grocery store and you're like wow there's a 37 brands of corn flakes which one am i 37 brands of corn flakes which one am i gonna buy yeah why do you need that in your life so it's it does sound like if we were to make any of the parameters mutable it would parameters mutable it would only be the fee right like if like we shouldn't change anything like the curve or anything like that for any of the you know if we add a for any of the you know if we add a new pool type like those should not be mutable right I don't think those should be mutable only from like i don't know like I don't know their nikolas shared this very
their nikolas shared this very cool defect report that colton long ago had shared with me and i shared with nikola shared with me and I shared with nikola nikon he posted it onto sellerdev which is about changing the curve parameters other than the fee i say defect report i guess i should say I say defect report I guess I should say vulnerability whatever you want to call it and if you're interested more you should review that because it's very you should review that because it's very scary I almost feel like this shouldn't be a configurable this shouldn't be a configurable parameter and if we do want to introduce a different if we do want to introduce a different fee we can might as well just introduce a new type of a new type of pool like i think that a new type of pool like I think that doing like even if you don't change it for existing pools i'll still you know i'll put
i'll still you know i'll put some money into a pool one day get you know one specific fee and the next day after the configuration change it's a safe type of pool but now change it's a safe type of pool but now I'm getting like a different type of fee so that there's like it's just not explicit enough a couple of people have said why don't we just introduce a new pool or why don't we do this who a new pool or why don't we do this who is the we in this situation does that make sense I think there are two different ways one could take this one way to introduce new types of pools would be that it's a protocol change you know like if we're gonna go from having only constant product pools to having constant product rules and i don't know something curve-like or I don't know something curve-like or balancer with weights or whatever we'd have to you know the Stellar protocol developers you know
protocol developers you know people who work on caps whatever would have to make that happen another way to look at we this is an idea that nikola had a long this is an idea that nikola had a long time ago about having this like this notion of like instead of letting people choose any fee they want or any whatever they want there are some configurations that the validators have voted on are good configurations when you're creating something you're basically choosing from that menu of good configurations and so in that setting we could be like and so in that setting we could be like validators you know they voted on saying that like now the fee can be both saying that like now the fee can be both 0.3 and 0.05 you know so depending on the context i think we so depending on the context I think we could be either of those cool things are there more questions about parameters i mean i feel like there's parameters I mean I feel like there's still a little bit more thinking there that we can sort of do in thinking there that we can sort of do in conversation on the Stellar dev list i don't want to move on though if I don't want to move on though if there's important things left to be said
there's important things left to be said but i feel like we're sort of at a good but I feel like we're sort of at a good point to move on right i agree like the next one is right I agree like the next one is actually related and maybe more interesting actually you and maybe more interesting actually you want to explain it yeah multiple pull support yeah so it's basically the two proposals are actually quite different there like cap 38 actually allows one asset pair to have arbitrary variations of pools for that one pair so the variation can be on the curve type it can be on any really any other parameter like we just talked about fee so you can imagine having two pools on the same two constant product pools let's say on the same asset pair but one is going
on the same asset pair but one is going to be you know super low c and the other is you know super low c and the other is like going to be a high fee and then like going to be a high fee and then you know the market kind of gets inside whatever capital e7 identifies pools using the pool type and then related to the thing we are talking about earlier the fee is global so at this point the only way you can have multiple pools on a given asset pair is if they defer on type do we want to have more of the first kind or the second time right like which one is maybe more interesting we want is maybe more interesting we want to have like those
a few number of options right in a for a given type or do we think that one type enough i think there are some like fundamental I think there are some like fundamental problems with the notion of like one instance of a pool per wait hold on actually let me make sure i wait hold on actually let me make sure i understand do you mean one instance of a pool per do you mean one instance of a pool per pair yeah of course all this is fair per pair yeah of course all this is fair right yeah so one in i think there's some like so one in I think there's some like fundamental denial of service flaws with one instance of a pool per pair which is the question of who gets to choose what that pool will be like is it going to be the hyphy one like is it going to be the hyphy one the low fee one is going to be curve the low fee one is going to be curve you know i think basically you know I think basically if there can be multiple types of pools we probably have to say that all of them we probably have to say that all of them can exist for the same pool to avoid having some arbitrary and by arbitrary you can
arbitrary and by arbitrary you can always take that to be adversarial decision maker like oh this is a super volatile asset pair where like you know constant product with a high fee would be the best I'm going to put in you know a curve with a super low fee to you know a curve with a super low fee to make it so nobody can use this don't want that to happen but here like you have the you know using cap37 as like the like maybe the as a talking point like the earlier we were talking about fees do we think that we want to have more than one few that we want to have more than one few I mean I think that we probably want to have more than one tea and not just force like people to pick like oh yeah this is like people to pick like oh yeah this is the right fit for you because
the right fit for you because i think that different I think that different asset classes actually have different like risk profile and volatility profile and therefore you want to have a different fee you know like you basically want the like crypto to crypto assets to have a different probably a different fee than the stable coin to stable coin type of fair right so yeah type of fair right so yeah you can let them compete and like you were saying like you can't let a single person decide on which one is the first one so then how do you let the market decide so then how do you let the market decide i think that's kind of I think that's kind of what I'm getting so it would bring market dynamics to bear on these given uncompeting pools
I don't really like for me the reality is i don't really see what we're is I don't really see what we're choosing between like the choices in my head are kind of like the choices in my head are kind of like there is exactly one type of pool and we apply that uniformly across the board or there's one you know maybe you say like okay like you can have different curves but all the ones with the same curve have the same fee whatever like whatever you kind of take that model at you're kind of saying like I'm gonna try to fit all the pegs into a single shaped to fit all the pegs into a single shaped hole if you take that approach and if you don't take that approach then you're basically saying well like I'm gonna let the market decide what's the market decide what's the non-stupid thing and i don't like forcing and I don't like forcing pegs into holes that don't that they don't fit in so for me it seems kind of like a for me it seems kind of like a very kind of obvious choice but I'm wondering if somebody sees the argument that goes in the other the argument that goes in the other direction like is there somebody who's like no like john you're definitely wrong
well I think the argument I held before on trying to force everybody into the same group is you avoid like splitting the liquidity but I'm not that's not my opinion either you know so i can't really support it but that i so I can't really support it but that i just wanted to call it out that's actually one of the argument that people call out yeah I mean I guess for me it kind of depends a lot on what the set of options are a lot on what the set of options are like you can imagine a world where like we just imagined that it was possible to create a constant product market maker with a fee at every thousandth of a percent there's no difference between i mean there's no difference between I mean they're not literally identical but there's no material difference between a fiat point three percent or point three zero one percent or point three zero one percent or point two nine percent
two nine percent they're kind of like exactly the same and i think in that world and I think in that world you probably do have liquidity fragmentation between people doing effectively the exact same thing differently whereas you know in a world where you're like okay like you have two fees on your constant product one is like 0.05 and one is one percent for totally different asset classes i think classes I think there's going to be like a very obvious place that people are going to want to put their money in those kinds of cases and there won't be a lot of blurriness I'm not 100 sure but i think the I'm not 100 sure but I think the amount of liquidity fragmentation depends on how distinct the options are but even in that case if market dynamics work wouldn't people be drawn to the fool with the lower feet right if they were the same but one even right if they were the same but one even had a tiny bit lower fee and then the two pools would be competing and they would actually that would push fees lower isn't that what you would expect not necessarily like for example
necessarily like for example if the impermanent like if prices are moving a lot and so there's a lot of moving a lot and so there's a lot of impermanent loss then people might make more money from the higher fee even if people traded less as a consequence and the other factor is if everybody's in the high fee pool then and like let's say that like let's suppose a world where there's 99 sorry 100 equivalent market makers 99 of them are in the big pool which has the high fees and the one other guy is in the small city pool in like the cap 38 proposal for like maybe some small trades would execute against the small pool the small fee pool but all the big trades would execute against the big fee pool because there'd be less slippage there and so maybe that person would end up making less money by being in the low fee pool and then they decide to join the high fuel pool anyway right so i think it's not obvious right so I think it's not obvious there's a bunch of different ways these kinds of things could shape out
so I mean maybe the answer to this is no but I'm just wondering if there's any if it's it just seems better to have only one pool you know other than the fact that you would have to agree on the parameters but I'm wondering if there's any way to kind of select the pool objectively like basically say that you know for any given pool you if there's multiple pools for an asset if there's multiple pools for an asset pair you just pick the one that has the pair you just pick the one that has the highest product or highest product plus reserve where people can pledge some reserve or something so you can let people sort of bid on what they have because what you kind on what they have because what you kind of want is like you want like you know in the kind of Stellar fashion of like it's just to everyone's advantage to do what everybody else is doing which is kind of like the whole philosophy of Stellar on some level you kind of would like market forces to decide this and so to the extent that then somebody a lot of people decide that you want to do something else then it should like make sense to move over to that that's something else but i mean that's john I mean that's john briefly mentioned this my new idea
briefly mentioned this my new idea earlier so that's kind of what i proposed earlier is basically what I proposed earlier is basically try to kind of find a good middle ground right like you don't want to have like you don't want to have like a single pool you know where you're forcing to this one rate you know across all assets you know that's i think that's kind of know that's I think that's kind of trying to that's too prescriptive on the other hand too prescriptive on the other hand if you allow people to set any price you if you allow people to set any price you know any fee and all that you end up know any fee and all that you end up with like this huge like you can't pick a pool basically like there are an infinite number of pools so the menu idea is to have validators actually describe the combinations that you are that you can use on the network and the combinations would be a combination for example like constant product you can have like low medium high c or something like that and then when you want to deposit assets in a
when you want to deposit assets in a pool you pick which of which item on the menu you want right you can say okay this is you want right you can say okay this is like a stable coin one so I'm going to like a stable coin one so I'm going to pick this scoff paying with this parameter right okay so here's i think you know this is probably not I think you know this is probably not workable but just to like get some design point out there suppose that you know people can sponsor these liquidity pools these liquidity pools using lumens and basically you can propose any value any parameter you want however in order to introduce a new liquidity pool when there's already one for that asset pair two things have to for that asset pair two things have to happen one you have to pledge more lumens than the previous reserve as pledged and two you have to have it like as at and two you have to have it like as at least as much liquidity in terms or the product has to be at least as great in terms of the assets you put as great in terms of the assets you put in there so this would allow people to change when everybody wanted to change
everybody wanted to change but it would sort of make it a little but it would sort of make it a little bit sticky what a I get what you're getting at here but like a kind of just practical implementation type question before we talk about this on the merits it's just like what about the case when you have pools that were like the product is a different number like the invariant is a different number the invariant is a different number you know the curve invariant is some really complicated thing that's really gross to write down and so they're obviously comparable there would be some requirement that for there would be some requirement that for any pool that we introduce but there needs to be a depth metric which is a number and where somehow we believe that in general deeper markets are better than shallower
how would you I guess like what would at like a high level what would an implementation of all of this kind of look like in an all of this kind of look like in an abstract sense but like we need some new kinds of entries and stuff like what is it like how do you what is it like how do you say that you're voting for one of these pools like what does it mean for like if you're voting for a pool but the pool doesn't actually work yet what is what are how do all these things kind of what are how do all these things kind of work at a high level yeah i guess you have some yeah I guess you have some number of let's say you have some number of candidate pools and in order maybe in order to create a candidate pool you have to pledge sort of twice the base reserve that's pledged for the previous one or something so we can't get like an infinite number of these and then for the candidate pools there's some amount of capital that's pledged and so if one of the candidate pools suddenly gets more or more depth right there's some amount of capitalist pledge and if at
amount of capitalist pledge and if at some point one of the candidate pools ends up with more depth than the existing pool then people would switch over so the basic assumption here is that like sort of 90 of the people participating in a liquidity pool would say hey like actually we want to go to a lower fee or actually we want to go to a lower fee or something right and so once everybody wants to do and so once everybody wants to do that they can make it happen but like you know a random person who's just trying to disrupt the existing market would have to like amass a lot of capital and essentially end up making a more liquid market in order to in order to disrupt the existing market it's a kind of interesting idea i'd have to think about that a bit i like definitely have some concerns I like definitely have some concerns along the same line as somebody mentioned now i think eric somebody mentioned now I think eric mentioned about like this like ephemeral trust line type of thing you can imagine somebody putting a lot of putting their money where their mouth is in like a huge amount and then you is in like a huge amount and then you know
know five ledgers later being like i just did five ledgers later being like I just did that to screw you guys all up and then that to screw you guys all up and then just pulling their money back on the other hand if what they did is provided people like really low fee transactions for five ledgers like is it so bad like they could have done the same thing by placing offers on the order book right it's a fair point so we only have five minutes left and i think that's fine because i think and I think that's fine because I think a lot of these questions can we can continue to sort of talk about them or to think about some of the suggestions that were raised and deal with them on the Stellar debt mailing list there were two other topics that we didn't really get into one was compliance and one was rounding do we want to take a second to talk do we want to take a second to talk about either of those right now would that be useful or is it too much to take on or is it too much to take on either one of those topics in the last four minutes it seems hard and for me I mean I'm like I'm very interested in talking about these but in detail
but in detail it just seems like it'll be unsatisfying to get into them now okay that makes sense to me i mean i think then the question is I mean I think then the question is what are the next steps after this what are the next steps after this meeting do we i feel like it is to meeting do we I feel like it is to continue the discussion on Stellar death but are there other follow-up actions that need to happen in order to make that possible I'm still trying to understand whether we've narrowed down the scope of which pools can exist and which ones can't like for a given asset pair have we agreed we can only have one pool have we agreed we can only have one pool or could we have multiple pools with different kinds of curve for that asset pair for example like i would love to write that down well I think what we were talking about was that we i think they was that we I think they we agreed that there would be more than one pool per asset there
what we are talking about last was more about the governance that goes with introducing a new pool like you can do it in many ways the good news is that we don't necessarily have to solve that i think in this version because right I think in this version because right now we're introducing only one constant product and I'm not sure we want to introduce in the first version the support for more than one rate right like we can basically for now like i think that's basically for now like I think that's what capital e8 says or even capital e7 that is there's only one rate and I'm it's probably fine for the very first version but it's interesting to think about how to change that in the future right if you'd be willing david i'd be like very interested to see like a high-level write-up of what you were describing so i can
of what you were describing so I can think about that more deeply yeah maybe i can just draft something by yeah maybe I can just draft something by email or something yeah that'd be fine it doesn't have to be super formal sure and i noticed for be super formal sure and I noticed for the future but there was the idea of a the future but there was the idea of a menu right that was sort of validator determined there was this idea of you can replace by better with some depth metric were there any other contenders for ways to do this well that was the question in the first thing right that was don't even allow to have more than one right yeah which is a third option sure okay there's also the free-for-all option anarchy I love the anarchy every time I'm listening to this I'm like this is we're talking about anarchy or we're talking about like soviet style communism or we're talking about just like free market capitalism i feel like there's ideologies behind all these choices you know john's like there should only be one kind of corn flake
be one kind of corn flake right i can go for like three kinds of right I can go for like three kinds of corn flakes just to be fair cool yeah you want the you know you're on the special occasion it's your birthday conflict right man I hope you have some like something like flat pink blueberry pancakes on your birthday not cornflakes i don't even know okay I don't even know okay that's time thanks everybody and thanks everyone who's watching at home again this discussion will continue on the Stellar dev google group which you can find a link to in the actual event description there's already a lot that's happened there and we will continue to have these discussions in these meetings to start to hammer out more of these proposals but again two proposals a lot of discussion many things that we covered today but many more things to cover look there to see what's happening this conversation will happen both sort of asynchronously there and synchronously here in the future
synchronously here in the future and we really appreciate everyone for being here thanks everyone